Preface to the Revised Eighth Edition<br>    The eighth edition of the Pocket Oxford dictionary takes even further the aims of the seventh edition towards making information easier to find and easier to understand. This is evident firstly in the continuation of the policy of denesting, i.e. the listing of words in a single alphabetial sequence of main entries with fewer items 'nested' at the end of entries. For example, in this edition, compound nouns written as two words(e.g. German measles)as well as some phrases (e.g.long in the tooth)are now main entries, while phrasal verbs and idioms remain listed under their first or main element(e.g. look up to, look smart). This makes words easier to find and reduces very long entries to a more manageable length.<br>    Secondly, this edition no longer contains lists of undefined entries as were previously found for words with prefixes such as over-, re-,and un.Instead, each is now treated as a main entry.<br>    Thirdly, the use of sense numbers within each part of speech section (noun, verb, adjective, etc.)makes it easier to distinguish senses which in previous editions were divided only by semicolons.<br>    The amount of information given in the dictionary about the forms of nouns, adjectives, and verbs has been greatly increased. Many more difficult plural forms of mouns are specified (e.g.for callus, larynx, and racoon), the treatment of verb conjugations is fuller(see, for example, cry, dye, and veto), and more comparative and superlative forms of adjectives (e.g.for dry, noble, and unwieldy) are provided.<br>    More prominence has been given in this edition to guidance on disputed and controversial usage, and special usage notes have been introduced to this end. These are based on the current norms of standard English, i.e. the form of written and spoken English most generally accepted as a normal based of communication in everyday life in the United Kingdom. Similarly, words that may everyday life in the United Kingdom. similarly, words that may cause great offence have been marked with the label offens. (offensive), in order to warn the reader of the likely effect of their use. Their inclusion in the dictionary does not in any way imply that their use is generally acceptable.<br>    The Pocket has now been compiled for the first time online. This has greatly aided processes such as cross-reference checking and has allowed updating throughout the text right up to the time of printing.<br>    January 1996