"The theoretical discussions are excellent. The Scollons provide a unique combination of all the essential topies in cross-cultural communication, a sophisticated and original theoretical framework, and an unusually well-organized and concise presentation of the material. The book in extrmely well written: it is cleaar and full of telling examples. I can't imagine a better treatment of the topic.'Deboran Tannen, Georgetown University<br>"The Scollons mix contemporary linguistic anthropology with modern concerns over intercultural communication and forge a creative, important blend. Their lively and accessible approach will enlighten anyone who lives and works in our culturally diverse world,'Michael Agar, University of Maryland<br>This volume is a lively introduction and practical guide to the main concepts and principal problems of intercultural communication. Viewed from within the framework of interactive sociolinguistics associated with Tannen, Gumperz, and others, the authors focus in particular on the discourse of Asians and of westemers, the discourse of men and women, corporate discourse  and the discourse of professional organizations, and intergenerational discourse. While making use of research in pragmatics, discourse analysis organizational communication, social psychology, and the ethnography of communication, this book presents students, researchers, and practitioners with a comprehensive and unified framework for the analysis of discourse.<br>Ron Scollon and suzanne wong scollon have written extensively on cross-cultural communication, from academic positions in North american universities as well as in Taiwan. south Korea, and Hong Kong, and in consultancies with over fifty governmental and corporate organizations in North America and Asia. Their book. Narrative, Literacy and Face in Interethnic communication, bas proved to be foundational both within academic studies of intercultural discourse and within corporate or institutional training programs. The authors are curently Lecturers in english at the city University of Hong Kong.