This book is a self-contained introduction to language and linguistics. suitable for use as a textbook and for self-study. Written by a team of distinguished linguists, it offers a unified approach to language from several perspectives. A language is a complex structure represented in the minds of its speakers, and this book provides the tools necessary for understanding this structure, It explains basic concepts and recent theoretical ideas in the major aresa of linguistics (phonetics, phonology, morphology, syntax and semantics), as well as the applications of these to the study of child laguage acquisition, psycholinguistics, language disorders and sociolinguistics. The book is divided into three parts: sounds, words and sentences. In each of these parts, the foundational concepts are introduced along with their applications in the above fields. giving this book a clear and unique structure. Each section is accompanied by extensive exercises and guidance on further reading.<br>    The authors all teach at the department of Language and Linguistics at the University of Essex, Andrew Radford is the author of four best-selling textbooks: Transformational Syntax(1981),Transformational Grammar(1988),Syntax(1997)and Syntactic Theory and the Structure of English (1997), all published by Cambridge Uniersity Press. Martin Atkinson is the author of Explanations in Child Language Acquisition(1982), Children's Syntax(1992)and Foundations of General Linguistics(With D.Kilby and 1. Roca, 1988).David Britain has published articles in Language in Society and Language Variation and Change. Harald Clahsen has written a number of books and articles on child language acquisition, developmental language disorders and the acquisition of German as a second language. Andrew Spencer is the author of Morphological Theory(1991)and Phonology (4996)and has contributed to the Handbook of Morphology and the Handbook of Linguistics.<br>    This intoduction, by some of today's most distinguished linguists, should rapidly become the market leader. lnstead of offering the usual catalogue of unconnected topics, the authors of this intoduction cover each of the major areas of language-sounds, words and sentences-from several viewpoints at once, giving a unified account of the field with unparalleled clarity and elegance. Each section is complemented by exercises which are at once challenging, illuninating and entertaining.'<br>    Neil Smith. University College London