国家颁布“标准”和“大纲”，加快汉语国际推广的步伐<br>The Country Issues “The Standard” and “The Curriculum” to Quicken the Step of the Promotion of the Chinese Language on the International Scale<br><br>周微<br>Zhou Wei<br><br>由国家汉语国际推广领导小组办公室组织编写的《国际汉语教师标准》、《国际汉语能力标准》和《国际汉语教学通用课程大纲》，日前已由外语教学与研究出版社正式出版。<br>Standards for Teachers of Chinese to Speakers of Other Languages, Chinese Language Proficiency Scales for Speakers of Other Languages and International Curriculum for Chinese Language Education compiled by The Office of Chinese Language Council International (Hanban) have recently been published by Foreign Language Teaching and Research Press.<br><br>“标准”和“大纲”是在全球“汉语热”持续升温、孔子学院蓬勃发展的国际背景下提出来的，汇集了国内外近百名专家和学者的智慧，旨在为国际汉语教师、汉语学习者以及国际汉语课程设计提供依据。可以说，该“标准”和“大纲”的研制在汉语作为第二语言的教学史上具有开创性的意义，为汉语在世界范围的推广打下坚实的基础。<br>“The Standards”, “The Scales” and the “Curriculum” are raised under the international circumstance of the continual popularization of “Chinese language learning” and the prosperous development of Confucius Institutes, and are the influx of the wisdom of nearly 100 experts and scholars home and abroad, aiming at providing support for teachers of Chinese to speakers of other languages, Chinese language learners and curriculum developers of international Chinese teaching. We dare to say that the compilation of “The Standards”, “The Scales” and the “Curriculum” is innovative in the teaching history of Chinese as a second language, and will lay a solid foundation for the promotion of Chinese in the world.<br><br>《国际汉语教师标准》旨在提高国际汉语教师的专业素质和教学水平，培养、培训合格的汉语教师，满足世界各地日益增长的汉语学习需求，建立一套完善、科学、规范的教师标准体系，为国际汉语教师的培养、培训、能力评价和资格认证提供依据。包括五大模块：“语言基本知识与技能”、“文化与交际”、“第二语言习得与学习策略”、“教学方法”、“教师综合素质”。<br>Standards for Teachers of Chinese to Speakers of Other Languages aims at enhancing the expertise and teaching abilities of teachers of Chinese to speakers of other languages, training competent teachers to meet the needs of increasing demands on Chinese learning, and establishing a mature, scientific and normative standard for the teachers to provide support for the training, proficiency evaluation and qualification of teachers of Chinese to speakers of other languages. The book contains five modules, including the basic knowledge and skills of the language, culture and communications, the second language acquisition and study strategies, teaching methods, and the comprehensive capabilities of the teacher.<br><br>《国际汉语能力标准》面向汉语作为外语的学习者，对其运用汉语知识和技能进行交际的能力，从不同层面提供了五个级别的描述，是衡量汉语学习者语言能力的重要依据。全书分三个层面：“国际汉语能力总体描述”、“从口头和书面两种交际方式的角度对汉语能力进行描述”和“从语言交际理解与表达的过程入手，分别对汉语口头理解和表达能力、汉语书面理解和表达能力进行描述”。<br>Chinese Language Proficiency Scales for Speakers of Other Languages sets CLS learners as the target, and provides a five-level description according to their knowledge and communicational skills of the Chinese language, and is a significant evaluation standard for the language proficiency of learners of Chinese. Three levels are included in the book: the overall description of the international Chinese proficiency, the description of the Chinese proficiency by the two communicative means of oral and written language, and the description of speaking and reading abilities by way of communication and expression.<br><br>《国际汉语教学通用课程大纲》是对汉语作为第二语言课程目标与内容的梳理和描述，旨在为汉语教学机构和教师在教学计划制定、学习者语言能力评测和教材编写等方面提供参考依据和参照标准。国际汉语教学课程的总目标是，使学习者在学习汉语语言知识与技能的同时，进一步强化学习目的，培养自主学习与合作学习的能力，形成有效的学习策略，最终具备语言综合运用能力。全书分五级，每一级别都从“语言知识”、“语言技能”、“策略”和“文化意识”四个层面对学习者学习汉语语言知识和技能及综合能力的培养进行目标描述。 <br>International Curriculum for Chinese Language Education is the compilation and description of the target and content of CLS courses aiming at providing references and standards for making teaching plans, evaluating the language proficiency and course compilations for Chinese teaching organizations and the teachers. The overall aim of the curriculum is to help learners strengthen the learning objectives, foster the self-study and teamwork ability while learning the language and communicative skills to form effective learning strategies, and in the end acquire the proficiency of the language. The book contains five levels, each providing objective description of the training of learners’ knowledge and proficiency of the language from four aspects: knowledge, skills, strategy, and cultural awareness.<br><br>“标准”和“大纲”的共同特点是语言简洁易懂，内容科学权威，融会了汉语言文学、语言学及应用语言学、心理学、社会学、计算机技术及应用等相关学科知识，提出了适合中国国情的汉语教学与学习方案，对未来的国际汉语教学和学习者汉语学习能力的测试与培养以及国际汉语教学课程设置具有普遍性的指导意义和应用价值。  <br>The common characteristics of “The Standards”, “The Scales” and the “Curriculum” are concise language, scientific and authoritative content, a combination of related knowledge in Chinese literature, linguistics and applied linguistics, psychology, sociology, computer science and application. They both provide teaching and learning methods that suits the circumstances in China, and are general guidance and of great value for the international Chinese teaching, language proficiency evaluation and training, and curriculum setting.<br><br>“标准”和“大纲”的内容和谐统一、相辅相成。两大“标准”分别从“教”和“学”的角度描述了汉语教师和汉语学习者应具备的能力，总体上是概括型的表述；而“大纲”的颁布，是根据两大“标准”，对教学机构和教师教学计划的制定、学习者语言能力测评和教材编写等各个层面提出了具体的要求，也就是两大“标准”的细化，是具体的、可操作的。<br>“The Standards”, “The Scales” and the “Curriculum” are harmonious and supplementary in contents. “The Standards” and “The Scales” describe the must abilities of the teachers and learners of Chinese, and is an overall description; while the publishing of “The Curriculum” is based on the “The Standards” and “The Scales”, and provides detailed requests on the teaching plans of training institutes and teachers, the learners’ proficiency evaluation and the compilation of teaching materials. It is the specifications of “The Standards” and “The Scales”, and is graphic and practical.<br><br>可以说，国家汉办适时推出《国际汉语教师标准》、《国际汉语能力标准》和《国际汉语教学通用课程大纲》，为日后培养合格的国际汉语教师和汉语专门人才提供了依据，同时也为编写汉语教学大纲、教材和评估学习者语言能力提供参照的标准。这是国家汉办在适应全球汉语热和推广国际汉语工作上的一项重大举措，为汉语在世界各地的普及和推广起到了方向标的作用。<br><br>The perfect timing of the publication of Standards for Teachers of Chinese to Speakers of Other Languages, Chinese Language Proficiency Scales for Speakers of Other Languages and International Curriculum for Chinese Language Education by Hanban provides a basis for training competent teachers and experts for teachers of Chinese, and a standard for compiling Chinese teaching curricula, materials and proficiency evaluation. This is a significant move by Hanban in accommodating the global popularization of Chinese learning and the promotion of Chinese, and is a direction indicator for the dissemination and promotion of Chinese all over the world.