特色鲜明的零起点汉语教材<br>――评“经理人汉语”系列教程<br><br>“经理人汉语”系列教程是由外语教学与研究出版社出版的一套零起点的、集听说读写为一体的综合性商务汉语基础教材，由《语音篇》、《生活篇》、《商务篇》和《经贸篇》四部分组成。教材配有磁带、CD，方便教师教学和学生自学。《语音篇》为基础阶段辅助教材，其余三篇主干教材依次按基础、初级、中级三个等级设置。各篇内容既循序渐进，又各有侧重，既可连续使用，也可分册单用。该套教材已在中欧青年经理培训项目中试用三年，日臻成熟。<br>该教材适合汉语零起点、又希望在短期内迅速提高汉语及商务汉语听说读写能力的短期汉语强化培训班使用。目前已被国内二十多所高校及十多所汉语培训学校使用。据教师和学生反映，教材编排合理，内容特点鲜明，尤其是其中的案例教学，将语言学习与案例分析有机结合起来，可以锻炼学习者用汉语分析和解决商务问题的能力，有很强的实用性和操作性。可以说，“经理人汉语”系列教程堪称商务汉语短期培训教材的佼佼者。<br>在培训学校使用教材的过程中，外研社还组织教材编写者到培训学校进行辅导授课，今后，外研社还将针对培训学校进行专门的教师培训辅导。目前，外研社正组织作者编写教师用书和练习册，并打算开设网络商务汉语课程，为学习者提供更方便快捷的服务，旨在将“经理人汉语” 打造为汉语培训市场的品牌产品。<br> “经理人汉语”系列教程一出版，就被多家国外出版机构看好，韩国YBM-SISA出版社率先购买了版权，使之成为韩国人学习商务汉语的首选教材。美国、英国等出版机构的授权问题正在洽谈中。<br><br><b>ABC Chinese Textbook with Distinctive Features</b><br>---Chinese for Managers from the starting level<br><br>Chinese for Managers is a comprehensive business Chinese course series for non-native Chinese learners at the beginning level, which is published by Foreign Language Teaching and Research Press (FLTRP). It includes four sub-series which are Phonetics, Everyday Chinese, Business Chinese and Trade and Economy, aiming at teaching Chinese from four perspectives C listening, speaking, reading and writing. The main textbooks are supplemented by cassettes/CDs , convenient for teaching and self-study. The Phonetics book is a supplementary one at the starter’s level, while the other three are designed for learners at starter’s, elementary and intermediate levels respectively. Though each of the four sub-series has its own focus, the rule of progressive education applies to all of them. The textbooks can be used either one after another or separately. This series has been piloted in he EU-China Junior Managers Training Programme for three years and is becoming more and more mature. <br>This series is applicable for short-term intensive training courses, which are designed for those who have zero knowledge of the Chinese language but hope to acquire the ability to understand, speak, read and write Chinese, esp. business Chinese, in a short time. It has now been adopted by more than 20 colleges and universities, as well as over 10 Chinese training schools. Teachers and students ever using this series said this series is well designed and structured, and of many distinctive features. One of the key features is the case studies in teaching, which combines language study and case analysis into an organic one. This can help learners develop an ability to analyze and settle business problems in Chinese, which is of highly practical and operational value. Thus, Chinese for Managers can be said to be one of the best business Chinese course books.for short-term training programmes.<br>FLTRP also organized authors and compilers of the books to give lectures at the training schools where Chinese for Managers is adopted. From now on, FLTRP will continue to do teacher training programmes at training schools. At present, FLTRP is organizing authors to write Teacher’s Book and Exercise Book for this series, and also has the plan to open up online courses teaching business Chinese which is expected to provide faster and more convenient service to learners. The purpose is to make Chinese for Managers a famous brand in the Chinese teaching market.<br>Soon after its publication, Chinese for Managers has aroused great interests from many foreign publishers. YBM-SISA became the first to buy the copyright to publish this series in Korea and endeavor to make it the No.1 business Chinese textbook among Korean learners. Licensing negotiations are going on with several American and British publishing houses.