《我和中国》是一部为这些华裔学生量身打造的汉语教材。作者在美国从事华裔学生的汉语教学二十多年，具有丰富的教学经验，并对华裔学生的汉语学习习惯、学习特点有深入的了解和研究。因此，教材的选题独具匠心，全部来自华裔学生生活中的点点滴滴，练习设计新颖活泼，参与性和互动性强，同时还把中国文化细致入微地体现其中，在提高汉语交际技能的同时，潜移默化地让这些华裔学生认识自己、认识中国。这部教材真正实现了作者、选材、编写理念的本土化，必将成为深受华裔学生和汉语教师欢迎的优秀教材。<br><br><b>Chinese Language Text for American-Born Chinese Students</b><br>? A review of Me and China<br><br><br>Foreign Language Teaching and Research Press (FLTRP), the leading publisher of foreign language education materials in China, and McGraw-Hill Higher Education, a premier provider of print and digital teaching and learning solutions for the post- secondary and higher education markets worldwide, have joined forces to offer Chinese-language educational materials in North America.<br>As China emerges as a global economic power, an unprecedented number of students in the U.S. are pursuing Chinese studies. Enrollment in Chinese- language courses at U.S. colleges and universities continues to grow at a rapid pace. Around the world, there are an estimated 30 million people who are learning Chinese as a second language.<br>"Me and China is an ideal first project for FLTRP and McGraw-Hill Higher Education with which to begin our joint effort in Chinese publishing," said Li Pengyi, president of FLTRP. "The project brings both of our strengths to the marketplace right from the start. Our alliance effectively combines FLTRP's rich Chinese-language content and our exceptional Chinese authors with McGraw- Hill's leading position in educational publishing, globally, and in the U.S., which is home to the largest population of Chinese-heritage students."<br><br>"McGraw-Hill Higher Education is proud to collaborate with FLTRP to launch this Chinese-language learning co-publishing effort," said Simon Allen, senior vice president, McGraw-Hill International Publishing Group. "Through this alliance, we are committed to developing and distributing the highest quality content from Chinese authors to markets around the world through McGraw-Hill Education's global network, and bringing world-class education materials to China. We look forward to a long and successful venture with FLTRP, building on McGraw-Hill Education's 30-year history of service to China's students and professionals."<br>The first co-publishing project in North America is Me and China, a college-level, introductory Chinese-language text for heritage speakers, American-born Chinese students who grew up being exposed to the Chinese language at home. Me and China will be the first Chinese text for the World Languages list at McGraw-Hill Higher Education. Future projects will target first-time Chinese-language learners in regions around the world.